## Virtual Hacking Labs

I wanted to write up a quick summary of my experience with VHL.  After I passed my eCPPT in December, I had a little bit of free time before I planned to start my PWK/OSCP in mid/late January.  Because of this, I decided to pay the $99 for 30 days worth of VHL.  Figured that would be enough time to go through some/most of the boxes and potentially learn a few things. 

But first, what is VHL?  I pulled this from their site, but in short ''Virtual Hacking Labs is a full penetration testing lab that is designed to learn the practical side of vulnerability assessments and penetration testing in a safe environment. We provide an online lab environment where beginners can make their first step into penetration testing and more experienced professionals can sharpen their pentesting skills."

My interpretation of this, was that this site was another HTB/THM/VulnHub type where they spun up purposefully vulnerable VMs for you to practice on, but they would focus more on actual vulnerabilities than CTF-yness machines like HTB.  

Anyway, on to the actual hacking.  Unfortunately they don't allow write-ups, but I wanted to make sure my note taking skills were up to par so I write private write-ups for every machine I did.  Looking back at my notes, I completed just shy of 30 machines.  Looks like most of the Beginner and Advanced with a few Adv+ scattered in.  There was an option to write a report to get a certification of completion, but I don't think it's really worth it.  The eCPPT report instructions with actually seeing reports at my $dayjob was good enough for me to feel comfortable writing them myself.  For the actual machines, they did emulate real world systems, that made it seem like you were doing an actual pentest instead of a CTF.  Despite that, I feel like each attack was very similar to one another, you would enumerate the system, find a public exploit that works out of the box, and then you either have a low level or root shell. I get that it's geared towards beginners, but I figured there would be more custom exploitation or outside the box thinking. Overall i'd say the course was very Linux heavy, or I somehow missed all the Windows machines.  Looking at my notes, it looks like it was about 3 to 1 Linux to Windows.  As for the Linux privilege escalations, when the exploit didn't just get you rooy, I had to resort to quite a few KE's.  Since they don't provide or allow write-ups, i'm unsure if I missed other avenues of attack, but when talking to other peers, they all had the same thought.  

To summarize, I'm not sure I really learned anything new from the month I spent in the VHL platform, however it really helped solidify my methodology in the sense that I made sure to check out every open port, figured out every running service, and cross checked those with public exploits.  In hindsight I probably would have passed and spent a month in OffSec's Proving Grounds as I've heard way more good things about that platform.
